docs: documentation for the Chrome DevTools integration (#61690)
angular/angular: adev/src/content/best-practices/runtime-performance/profiling-with-chrome-devtools.md

- Angular-specific entries contributed by the framework's runtime.

The two mentioned sets are presented together, on separate tracks:

<img alt="Angular custom track in Chrome DevTools profiler" src="assets/images/best-practices/runtime-performance/angular-perf-in-chrome.png">

Angular-specific data are expressed in terms of higher level framework concepts (components, change detection, lifecycle hooks etc.) in addition to lower-level function and method calls captured by a browser. As the two data sets are correlated it is possible to switch between the different views and level of details.

Angular custom track can be used to:

- understand if a given code executing in a browser is part of the Angular application (or maybe belongs to another script running on the same page);
- quickly identify performance bottlenecks and attribute those to components or services;
- better understand Angular's inner working thanks to the clear visualization of components, templates and lifecycle hooks processing that are part of a given change detection cycle.

## Recording a profile

### Enable integration

> To record a profile with the Angular-specific data included, we need to enable integration first, by either:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can enable Angular profiling in one of two ways:
```

<img alt="Profile data: Angular vs. 3rd party scripts execution" src="assets/images/best-practices/runtime-performance/profile-angular-vs-3rd-party.png">

This allows developers to decide, at one glance, if any further investigations should focus on the Angular application or maybe 3rd party scripts.

### Color-coding

Angular uses a color-coding schema in the flame chart graph to clearly distinguish between various types of tasks:

- 🟦 (blue): represents TypeScript code written by the application developer (ex.: services, component constructors and lifecycle hooks, etc.)
- 🟪 (purple): represents templates code written by the application developer and transformed by the Angular compiler;
- 🟩 (green): represents entry points to the application code and identifies _reasons_ for executing code.

The following examples illustrate the described color-coding in various, real-life recordings.

### Bootstrap process

> If we focus on the application bootstrap process, it will typically consist of:

Author: Thnx, I think I've corrected all the usages.

- triggers marked in blue (ex.: call to the `bootstrapApplication`, instantiation of the root component, initial change detection etc.);
- various DI services instantiated during bootstrap (marked in green).

<img alt="Profile data: bootstrap application" src="assets/images/best-practices/runtime-performance/profile-bootstrap-application.png">

### Component execution

If we zoom onto one component, it will be represented as an entry point (blue) followed by its template execution (purple). A template might, in turn, trigger instantiation of directives and execution of lifecycle hooks (green):

<img alt="Profile data: component processing" src="assets/images/best-practices/runtime-performance/profile-component-processing.png">

### Change detection

Zooming out a bit, we can inspect a typical change detection process (an entry point in blue):

<img alt="Profile data: change detection" src="assets/images/best-practices/runtime-performance/profile-change-detection.png">

> It will consist of one or more data synchronization passes (blue), where each pass will traverse a subset of components. Notice that we can immediately identify components that were involved in the change detection and which were skipped (ex.: `OnPush` components that were not marked dirty).

Reviewer: nut: always use present tense (no "will")

# Profiling with the Chrome DevTools

Angular integrates with the Chrome DevTools (through the [extensibility API](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/performance/extension)) to present framework specific data and insights directly in the [Chrome DevTools performance panel](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/performance/overview).

With the integration enabled, it is possible to [record a performance profile](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/performance#record) containing the two sets of data:

- standard performance entries based on Chrome's understanding of your code executing in a browser;

> - Angular specific entries contributed by the framework's runtime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Angular-specific entries contributed by the framework's runtime.
```

nit: consistent with other two usages

# Profiling with the Chrome DevTools

> Angular integrates with the Chrome DevTools (through the [extensibility API](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/performance/extension)) to present framework-specific data and insights directly in the [Chrome DevTools performance panel](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/performance/overview).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Angular integrates with the [Chrome DevTools extensibility API](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/performance/extension) to present framework-specific data and insights directly in the [Chrome DevTools performance panel](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/performance/overview).
```

With the integration enabled, you can [record a performance profile](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/performance#record) containing two sets of data:

> - standard performance entries based on Chrome's understanding of your code executing in a browser;
> - Angular-specific entries contributed by the framework's runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Standard performance entries based on Chrome's understanding of your code executing in a browser, and
- Angular-specific entries contributed by the framework's runtime.
```

> The two mentioned sets are presented together, on separate tracks:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Both sets of data are presented together on the same tab, but on separate tracks:
```

<img alt="Angular custom track in Chrome DevTools profiler" src="assets/images/best-practices/runtime-performance/angular-perf-in-chrome.png">

Angular-specific data are expressed in terms of framework concepts (components, change detection, lifecycle hooks, etc.) alongside lower-level function and method calls captured by a browser. These two data sets are correlated, and you can switch between the different views and level of details.

You can use the Angular track to better understand how your code runs in the browser, including:

- Determining whether a given code block is part of the Angular application, or whether it belongs to another script running on the same page.
- Identifying performance bottlenecks and attribute those to specific components or services.

> - Gain deeper insight into Angular's inner working with a visual breakdown of each change detection cycle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Gaining deeper insight into Angular's inner working with a visual breakdown of each change detection cycle.
```

1. Include a call to `enableProfiling()` in your application startup code (imported from `@angular/core`).

Angular profiling works exclusively in development mode.

Example of enabling the integration just before the application bootstrap to capture all possible events:

```ts
import { enableProfiling } from '@angular/core';
import { bootstrapApplication } from '@angular/platform-browser';
import { MyApp } from './my-app';

// Turn on profiling *before* bootstrapping your application
// in order to capture all of the code run on start-up.
enableProfiling();
bootstrapApplication(MyApp);
```

### Record a profile

Use the **Record** button in the Chrome DevTools performance panel:

<img alt="Recording a profile" src="assets/images/best-practices/runtime-performance/recording-profile-in-chrome.png">

See the [Chrome DevTools documentation](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/performance#record) for more details on recording profiles.

## Interpreting a recorded profile

You can use the "Angular" custom track to quickly identify and diagnose performance issues. The following sections describe some common profiling scenarios.

> ### Angular application and other tasks on the same page

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Differentiating between your Angular application and other tasks on the same page
```

> As Angular and Chrome data are presented on the separate but correlated tracks it obvious when Angular's application code is executed as opposed to some other browser processing (typically layout and paint) or other scripts running on the same page (in this case the custom Angular track does not have any data):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As Angular and Chrome data are presented on the separate but correlated tracks, you can see when Angular's application code is executed as opposed to some other browser processing (typically layout and paint) or other scripts running on the same page (in this case the custom Angular track does not have any data):
```

<img alt="Profile data: Angular vs. 3rd party scripts execution" src="assets/images/best-practices/runtime-performance/profile-angular-vs-3rd-party.png">

This allows you to determine at a glance whether further investigations should focus on the Angular application code or on other parts of your codebase or dependencies.

### Color-coding

Angular uses colors in the flame chart graph to distinguish tasks types:

- 🟦 Blue represents TypeScript code written by the application developer (for example: services, component constructors and lifecycle hooks, etc.).
- 🟪 Purple represents templates code written by the application developer and transformed by the Angular compiler.
- 🟩 Green represents entry points to the application code and identifies _reasons_ for executing code.

The following examples illustrate the described color-coding in various, real-life recordings.

> ### Example: Application bootstrapping

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Example: Application bootstrapping
```

The application bootstrap process usually consists of:

> - triggers marked in blue (such as: call to the `bootstrapApplication`, instantiation of the root component, initial change detection etc.);
> - various DI services instantiated during bootstrap (marked in green).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Triggers marked in blue, such as the call to the `bootstrapApplication`, instantiation of the root component, and initial change detection
- Various DI services instantiated during bootstrap, marked in green.
```

<img alt="Profile data: bootstrap application" src="assets/images/best-practices/runtime-performance/profile-bootstrap-application.png">

> ### Example: Component execution

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Example: Component execution
```

One component processing is typically represented as an entry point (blue) followed by its template execution (purple). A template might, in turn, trigger instantiation of directives and execution of lifecycle hooks (green):

<img alt="Profile data: component processing" src="assets/images/best-practices/runtime-performance/profile-component-processing.png">

> ### Example: Change detection

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Example: Change detection
```

A change detection cycle usually consists of one or more data synchronization passes (blue), where each pass traverses a subset of components.

<img alt="Profile data: change detection" src="assets/images/best-practices/runtime-performance/profile-change-detection.png">

> It is possible to immediately identify components that were involved in the change detection and which were skipped (typically the `OnPush` components that were not marked dirty).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With this data visualization, it is possible to immediately identify components that were involved in the change detection and which were skipped (typically the `OnPush` components that were not marked dirty).
```

> Additionally one can inspect the number of synchronization passes for one change detection: having more than one synchronization pass suggest that state is updated during change detection. This should be avoided as it makes the change detection slower and can result in infinite loops in unfortunate cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, you can inspect the number of synchronization passes for one change detection. Having more than one synchronization pass suggest that state is updated during change detection. You should avoid this, as it slows down page updates and can even result in infinite loops in the worst cases.
```
